In the late 1970s, two projects began independently, with the same goal:
to define a unifying standard for the architecture of networking systems.
One was administered by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO),
while the other was undertaken by the International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee,
or CCITT (the abbreviation is from the French version of the name).
These two international standards bodies each developed a document that defined similar networking models.

In 1983, these two documents were merged to form a standard called The Basic Reference Model for Open Systems Interconnection.
The standard is usually referred to as the Open Systems Interconnection Reference Model, the OSI Reference Model, or simply the OSI model.
It was published in 1984 by both the ISO, as standard ISO 7498, and the renamed
CCITT (now called the Telecommunications Standardization Sector of the International Telecommunication Union or ITU-T) as standard X.200.

OSI had two major components, an abstract model of networking, called the Basic Reference Model or seven-layer model,
and a set of specific protocols.

The concept of a seven-layer model was provided by the work of Charles Bachman at Honeywell Information Services.
Various aspects of OSI design evolved from experiences with the ARPANET, NPLNET, EIN, CYCLADES network and the work in IFIP WG6.1.
The new design was documented in ISO 7498 and its various addenda. In this model, a networking system was divided into layers.
Within each layer, one or more entities implement its functionality.
Each entity interacted directly only with the layer immediately beneath it, and provided facilities for use by the layer above it.

Protocols enable an entity in one host to interact with a corresponding entity at the same layer in another host.
Service definitions abstractly described the functionality provided to an (N)-layer by an (N-1) layer,
where N was one of the seven layers of protocols operating in the local host.
